All right.
Let's do an example.
OK first of all you don't want to be drawing something like this all the time especially when we're
gonna be dealing with circuits.
So whenever you're dealing with circuits the symbol for capacitors.
OK
they're represented like this.
So here's a wire.
And again you actually do make parallel plates you just make them smaller and then you continue with
your wire.
All right.
And then you would call this the capacitance.
Imagine you have a power supply or a battery a battery has a symbol again some wires and usually there
is a long line and a short line.
And typically what you say is there is a voltage between both of those positive and negative.
The positive is usually the longer line the negative is the shortest one and usually you say there is
a voltage between those plates.
For example if we use just the standard battery it's one point five volts.
That's the voltage between the plates.
And again they really mean a delta V.
But sometimes they just leave out the Delta.
It's the difference of voltage between both of those.
So we can draw a simple circuit with one capacitor.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Here's some wire and here I'm going to draw one value of a capacitor.
Here's a simple circuit with a capacitor.
So again we're going to take these equal to one point five volts from my battery and we're going to
assume that this capacitor here as a value equal to let's say to micro Feride again sometimes they leave
out the A it's just micro f.
OK.
So the question is how much charge would there be on the plates.
If I connect this capacitor to this battery OK.
And again the amount of charge you just go back to my equation over here the charge is simply the capacitance
multiplied by the voltage in the voltage that you're going to get.
Again this is a wire a wire is an equity potential right.
It's a conductor.
So that means that this plate here is at plus in this place.
This other plate is at negative right.
So if I would kind of do like this and the voltage between those plates would be equal to the voltage
across the battery whatever voltage I have here is going to be the same voltage everywhere here because
this is a wire connected to a plate.
So it has to be the same.
All right.
So if I wanted to calculate how much charge we have again you take the value of the capacitance it's
two times 10 to the negative six and multiplied by the voltage the voltage in this case is one point
five.
So we multiply two and one point five you're gonna get three times ten to the negative six.
And that's the charge.
So this bill would be measured in columns.
Okay.
So again if you would zoom in that means one plate would be have plus three micro columns the other
plate would have negative three micro columns.
But this is kind of a quick little example on how to deal with calculating the charge on capacitors.